Thousands of years have passed since all
of humanity was mysteriously petrified.
Those of us who revived into the
primitive, post-apocalyptic world
worked diligently to rebuild
science from scratch.
We finally reached the milestone of building
a ship that would take us across the Pacific.
To those hearing this
recording, nice to meet you.
I am reporter Hokutozai Minami.
I leave this record for posterity.
We are on our way to discovering the secret
behind the petrification of humanity.
Our destination is the
enemy's home base: the moon!
This is a big project that will take us
from the stone age to building a spaceship.
We'll gather materials from all over
the world, starting in the Americas.
Let's ask the crew what they have to say!
Strongest Primate High Schooler
Once we revive all of humanity,
there will be those who misuse firearms,
and those who gain power
and try to exploit others.
I won't let them do that.
I won't let them taint the
hands of science with blood.
My task now is to make sure of that.
Tsuka-san!
The Americas, huh?
Shallow Mentalist
I used to live there for,
like, ten billion years.
The girls overseas are pretty cute, too.
Also, the Statue of Liberty might still
be there, since it's made of copper.
Not that I'd know.
Sorries.
Could you be a little more serious?!
I got to get on the boat for
doing a good job on the island!
Great Detective Girl
I'm gonna make myself useful this time!
I've only ever seen you be nothing but useful.
God-tier Craftsman
My dear recorder!
Are you recording?
Are you recording right now?
Inspired Science User
We're carving sound into an urushi
lacquer-coated wood cylinder.
It carves really well and catches everything!
Well? What do you think of
my insanely inspired idea?
No, I'm asking about what
you think of our departure.
I'm simply following the duty I
was given to follow your orders.
Uptight Thrower Specialist
You're so stiff.
Do you have any personal feelings or anything?
I know!
You and Kinro might get along well,
since you're both so uptight.
Well? What do you think?
I don't concern myself with such things!
Kirisame?
Uptight Spear Specialist
Yeah, she's quite skilled.
We'll need to keep up!
We must train harder!
And yet, look at Ginro!
What would have become of him if Matsukaze
hadn't been taking care of him?
Warrior of Revenge
Taking care of Ginro-dono?
No, I merely served as his legs for a while.
I haven't done anything of particular note.
Yeah, my legs...
They suddenly started hurting like
hell right before our departure.
Man, what should I do?
I definitely don't want—not to get on a
ship going so far, but I don't think I can.
Scumbag Warrior
That's when Matsukaze had to be all,
"Master!" and brought me on board.
I'm so glad!
I hate this!
I'm gonna die of boredom!
Only when the weather's nice.
How much longer is it going to take?!
I hate this!
Now I'm so busy, I'm gonna die!
Yeah, during a storm.
How much longer is it going to take?!
Leader of the Ship
Seventy days.
Forty days!
Leader of Science
O-Oh, no!
This is bad!
Senku and Ryusui are...
Oh, shit, they're arguing up there.
What?!
Fighting is bad!
Fighting?
No, this is a discussion.
A diss?
You were dissing each other?
Yeah, that's about right, meathead.
We're fighting.
Fighting is bad!
Crazy ability to learn.
You're talking about the route to the US, huh?
That's why you used to be a submariner.
You just get it.
We departed from Tokyo.
And our destination?
The US, right?
Yup.
Right here.
What's the quickest route to San Francisco?
Straight, like this, right?
Even I know that.
Hang on, that's too easy.
This has to be a trick question.
Good answer!
That's called the rhumb line, where you go
in the same direction for the whole route.
Rhumb Line
It makes navigation easy, and it's how ships
have been doing it throughout most of history.
We're spending 70 days on that route to the US.
70 Days to the US
Whoa, nailed it!
Wrong!
Time for the happy right answer reveal.
The shortest route would be...
this!
How?!
That'll obviously take longer!
A picture's worth a thousand words.
Try comparing it for yourself on that globe.
Go for it.
The route that looked further on
the map is actually a lot shorter!
You're right!
That's what happens when it's a sphere.
That's the actual shortest distance.
Great circle route
The great circle route.
We're using this shortcut
to get to the US in 40 days.
40 Days to the US
Seventy days! We're taking the rhumb line!
The great circle route would have us steering
constantly depending on our position.
It's the max difficulty route!
The stress on the crew isn't even comparable!
Forty days! Great circle route!
We're a ship of science!
As janky as it is, we have
our great lord the GPS!
We can ten billion percent stay on course!
Chill!
It's super scary seeing our top two duke it out!
They may have had some training,
but we're a band of newbie sailors.
I guarantee you we'll go down!
You aren't crossing the
Pacific on armchair idealism!
Seventy days, absolute minimum!
I'm telling you, as a sailor, what's realistic.
Am I wrong?
We won't make it in time
for the yellow dent corn.
We'll barely make it by fall
if we arrive in 40 days.
That's as late as we can be
if we're making revival fluid.
Dick around for 70 days,
and winter will be too late.
We'll be losing a whole year
of our insanely precious time.
Forty days is absolute.
I'm laying out the logic as a science user.
Am I wrong?
It kinda sounds like they're both right.
Yeah.
Ryusui, who's being unwaveringly
realistic for the sake of our crew,
and Senku, who's being unwaveringly
rational for the sake of the future.
There is no right answer here.
If they're both right, I think
I'm with Ryusui-chan on this one.
I can't stand arduous work.
I support Senku.
We need to get there as soon as we can.
Of course you'd say that, Kohaku-chan.
You're always the immediate action type.
Double the ration distribution for the crew.
Yeah, that's the answer.
That'll halve our maximum voyage time.
Are you sure?
We'll be fine as long as we get there earlier.
70 Days to the US
We'll subtract ten days from our trip.
60 Days to the US
No more than that.
Any more, and I will step
in for the sake of our crew.
Senku, I'll have to fight you.
Forty days.
That's our time limit.
Guess we'll have to do it!
Th-This is getting bad!
Senku and Ryusui...
...are dueling?!
This is the duel?
A game of poker?
Why'd you have to go all-out
on the outfit? Dumbass.
Why else?
To let the gallery know
that this is a formal game.
That'll make sure everyone
follows the victor's wishes.
And I'm sure to win, because...
Hi, Senku-chan.
Sowwy, I'm on Team Ryusui-chan this time.
Are you serious?!
This dude's ten billion percent going to cheat!
You fraud mentalist!
That's nasty.
Everyone's free to have a seat.
Am I wrong?
Oh, dear.
The opponent is tag teaming.
You wouldn't mind me teaming
up with Senku, then, would you?
We're counting on your dynamic
visual acuity here, Kohaku.
Keep a good eye on Gen's sleights of hand.
With the route to the US up for grabs,
the leader of the sea, Ryusui-kun,
and the leader of science,
Senku-kun, are competing!
I don't know about this one...
There's no telling who's going to win.
Let's take bets!
My money's on Ryusui!
Gen's on his side!
There's no getting by his cheating!
I dunno, but Ryusui seems like a better gamer.
Senku would never lose in a mind battle!
Team Senku
Team Ryusui
You guys don't know how
well Kohaku-chan can see!
You're enjoying this, aren't you?!
Your lives are on the line here!
Well, let's start, then.
I'll deal the first five cards.
We'll take turns dealing each round.
Shall we choose the first dealer
with a game of rock-paper-scissors?
Okay.
First comes rock.
Rock-paper-scissors.
My bad, I didn't want to get in the
way of the rock-paper-scissors.
I can't believe I did that.
Oh, that's odd.
It appeared as though you
were carrying those cards.
I'll admit that I jumped the gun if the
first card isn't the ace of hearts.
What's this?
What a surprise!
It totally is the ace of hearts!
What a coinky-dink!
Don't let this lanky bastard touch the cards!
That's harsh!
Raise.
Call.
Full house.
Three-of-a-kind.
Straight.
Flush!
They're neck-and-neck so far.
Ryusui has a few more chips, though.
Raise.
He's raising the stakes dramatically.
Will Senku-kun accept?
Ryusui's so self-assured, I have
no idea if he's bluffing or not.
I call.
You sprinkled something onto the deck.
Sugar, maybe?
He could be trying to make
the card move less evenly.
But, but... I never touched the card!
No placing your hand over the cards, either!
Yes, ma'am.
Ah, so that's what that was.
Kohaku, check Gen's sleeve.
A kanabun beetle?!
How are you supposed to cheat with that?
Its antennae react to the
card with the sugar on it.
Just how sketchy do you have to be?!
I'm out of tricks!
I haven't done anything! I swear!
You can check all the cards
if you have any doubts.
Each and every card.
Carefully.
Everyone's eyes, including mine and
Kohaku's, are on the deck right now!
I raise to the max!
Ryusui-kun has bet even more chips!
Is this to be his finishing blow?
Ryusui's hand changed direction
in that brief moment.
Hasn't it?!
You switched his hand, didn't you, Gen?!
That's an awful accusation.
You diverted everyone's attention
using the bug and the card check.
Basic magic.
I should have known, Gen.
You seemed unusually careless there.
You let your opponent have a
comfy win with the easy trick,
had everyone focus on the deck,
and swapped four of his cards.
So all that prep was to pull off this one move.
If he's been setting it up this whole time,
all four of them have to be aces,
the four strongest cards!
The only way Senku can win
now is with a straight flush.
There's no way!
The second card from the top.
The second card from the bottom.
Senku, you're going to have to fold.
All right, then.
I'm all-in, too.
He's all-in!
He's betting all of his chips!
But why?
Diverting everyone's attention...
Basic magic!
All right, we'll...
draw three cards.
Too fast!
Did you really take from the top of the deck?!
Of course. What a nasty accusation.
She took cards from the middle of the deck.
Why would they do that, though?
They can't even see which cards they were.
I don't see anything that could be a mark.
So it could be entirely a bluff.
You amuse me!
Very well, let's settle it now!
We're both all-in!
It's on!
Four-of-a-kind!
Royal straight flush.
What?!
All the chips are mine! I win!
There are five aces.
I guess that doesn't even matter anymore, huh?
H-H-How?!
I have no idea how they did it!
I don't see a mark anywhere!
Of course you don't.
The mark of science is
transparent and colorless.
Urushiol.
There happened to be some urushi
lacquer lying around, so I took some.
I've been looking for key cards from the
beginning and rubbing the lacquer into the edges.
Urushi just happened to be lying around?
We coated it with urushi
lacquer so it records better!
How could anyone see that
urushi-whatever if it's transparent?
How come Senku could tell?
Oh, of course...
Senku-chan has super urushi-sensitive skin.
The winner: Senku!
You're risking your life too much for a bet.
We're taking the great circle
route across the Pacific Ocean.
It's ten billion percent harder.
We'll coordinate with Ruri
and the others back home
and GPS our way across Earth.
It's the shortcut of science.
Jackpot!
I blew nearly all my wealth!
Damn it!
One more!
I'm winning it all back with the next one!
Let's do one more!
We're obviously not doing that.
Very well!
Really?
On one condition.
We're doing it here!
Whoaaa
As luck would have it, you got
that casino you've always wanted.
Leisure is a perfectly valid part of strategy.
We're shaving a whole 30 days off our trip.
We'll have to make up for it by improving
conditions on the ship for the crew.
70 Days to the US
We lose ten days with increased food.
60 Days to the US
Another ten with leisure facilities.
50 Days to the US
I want one more thing to make
up for the last ten days.
After food and leisure,
all that's left is drinks.
They're setting up a new shop here.
"Bar François"...
A bar? Do you mean...
Booze?!
Let's rejuvenate ourselves, all!
m 0 0 l 246 0 l 246 80 l 0 80
Beer
acquired!!
Cheers!
More!
So that makes up the last ten days.
Everything worked out the way Senku wanted.
It's a little too perfect, don't you think?
The poker battle made the casino a huge success.
It's a benefit package that
includes a bar to boot.
We'll survive a harsh route just fine now.
Even if it was Ryusui who won,
it might have ended up the same.
In other words, it was all a set-up,
starting with Ryusui and Senku fighting.
The whole thing might have been
theater, choreographed by a mentalist.
How's that for a fun conspiracy theory?
What the heck are you talking about, Ukyo-chan?
You're reading way too much into it.
Though...
I will say one thing.
The poker game was super legit.
That's one thing I'm still bummed about.
Just a little.
Senku-chan.
50 Days to the US
40 Days to the US
Now we'll be in the New World in no time.
This is exhilarating.
Next Episode
This is a work of fiction, but the plants,
animals, and production methods described are based on reality.
Foraging and making things on your own accord is extremely dangerous
and, in some cases, illegal. Please do not imitate without expertise.